Hello everyone.
So I hope that you all have went through the introduction review of this music playlist library application
within Java.
Now we will have a quick look at how the app works.
Like actually what is the working of the application we are going to learn how to make today.
So this is the interface of the application.
Like when we will run the main class of the application, this file is going to be open in that terminal
and we have to perform our tasks head on.
So you can see that it is showing the currently playing track, which is the first track from the list,
and it is also showing available options and we have to press any of the one case to see what happens.
So let us try to press one in the beginning.
So I am pressing one and hitting enter.
So perfect.
We have 4 to 5 songs in the list and the first one was this with duration 4.5 seconds, and the second
one is the peaches with 3.5 minutes sorry, 3.5 minutes duration and this is 4.5 minutes duration.
So the next song is played by pressing the first key from a player, one from the keyboard.
Now we want to navigate through the previous song like we want the state to be played again.
So we will press to from the keyboard and hit Enter.
And yes, the first song is played again as the song is navigated from the current song to the previous
song, which was the first song from the list.
Now we are going to replay the current song.
So the current song is this.
So if we hit Enter by pressing three, then again the same song will be played.
So I talked about playing songs in the loop.
Like if we like a song much more than any other song, we would love to listen to that song again and
again without stopping.
So we will press three and keep listening to that track continuously without any break.
Like in our loop, we say that now the fourth key is going to list all of the songs from the list,
so let us try that also perfect.
So the fourth key is responsible for playing a listing the songs which are present in the album currently.
So currently we have four songs in the song list and they are listed here.
Now after that, suppose we are done with the listing like we saw.
What are the songs present now?
We want to navigate back to the available options and perform some other tasks.
So we have to press five on the keyboard and hit enter.
So we are back with the available options and now we can perform any other task.
So suppose we want to play a song.
So we are pressing one.
So the song is playing now if suppose I don't like the song anymore and I want to delete delete this
song from the list.
So what I am supposed to do, like how can I remove this song from the list?
So you got me right.
We have to press this six to delete the current song as we no longer want it out in our list.
So pressing six.
And the next song is played from the list like this was the second song and the third song is played.
Of course, if we remove this song, the next song will be played automatically.
Now we want to see that.
What are the songs that are left in the list?
Like what is the list remained with the song?
So which songs to see that we have to press for to list all the songs again?
So yes, initially we had four songs in our list and now we have three songs in our list.
We have deleted this second song from the list by pressing six from our keyboard.
So by far we have like the did all the operations which are involved in this application and learned
that how perfectly it is working.
So now let us take a look at what are the tasks to be performed while making this application like we
are here in this empty.
To design a prototype, like what are the steps to be followed in order to build this application?
So in the beginning we have to create a Java project in the IDE.
So initially we have to create the project obviously.
The second step should be to create a class, so to create a class like how many classes are required.
So I think we required three class overall in this project.
So we are going to firstly create the song class, create the song.
I am capitalizing it so that it gives a emphasize over the class name or create a song class.
Yes.
So.
The song class will be created and sung Java file inside the ASIC folder.
We have already discussed it like how to create a class inside this RC folder.
We have went through this already.
Now the next motive should make it like we have three classes.
So the second class should be the album class.
So if there are songs, there would be albums of specific artists like suppose we have five artists
which we are going to add in our music library.
So we have to set albums of that specific artist.
Suppose the artist has sung these five songs to Artist B has done these five songs, so we have listed
them inside the album class.
Like what are the artists and what are their songs?
Now, after creating the song and the album classes, we have to create the main class, which will
be responsible for testing and running of this application.
So creating the main class and this main class will handle all the functionalities of the playlist application.
So the main class is going to handle all the functions inside the classes, like we have objects inside,
classes we have constructed, inside the classes we have functions inside the classes.
So everything is going to be consisted inside this main class.
So after creating the main class, we are going to attach the data structures like the string, the
analyst, the link list and so on.
So attaching the data structures.
Within the glasses or God, these typos.
Within the classes.
Classes and functions as well, like inside a function we are going to call the data structure as far
as our needs asks for.
So attaching the data structure within the classes.
Now let us navigate through our application once again and see what our functionality is to be performed.
So we have to create a function to play the songs like the previous or the next, whatever we want to
play or to replay the current song.
So we have to create a functionality for playing and replaying of the song.
So let me mention in head playing and replaying functionalities.
So playing and replaying functionality should be attached.
Her functionalities should be attached her.
In the program.
Now, after that, we have a listing of all the songs.
So this is going to be done with the help of the special data structure we are going to use, and we
will study about it in the detail when we will start to code.
So listing the songs is going to be a main function.
We are going to add in this project printing all the available options again.
So yes, this is a normal thing and functionalities for deleting the song.
So functionality for deleting the song.
So these are the functionalities we are going to add in our project and if something remains, we will
added later here.
After starting the project, like when we will create the project and we will come here and see what
are the functionalities left to be added and we will add it here in the prototype as well.
As far as the needs are, I'm like, this is not a fancy application.
We are just learning ops and Java concepts and the data structure attached to a specific functionality.
So we will see that according to our needs.
Like what are the functionality we want to add?
There is no limit.
We can add anything inside this player as we have, not a specific frame.
Like we have to fix everything inside the frame.
No, we have everything done inside the terminal only so we can add anything like it is something like
playing with this project.
So if we are playing this with project we have, we can press any key any time like we can press for.
We can press five and see that everything is working fine or not.
We can also add more keyboard keys with functions attached so that we can explore more about this application.
Like suppose we want to add something feature like play this song after this, like adding songs in
the queue.
You must have heard about it so we can also create a dedicated function for that.
Also, we can see that when we will start making the application.
So.
So I think we are done with the idea building thing and now we have to start making that project to
learn what is actually happening here.
Like after the prototype session is done.
Now, in the next part we are going to start afresh new project in our compiler and make the classes
and do all the functionalities we have listed here.
So see you in the next part.